"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level",
"The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar",
"A group of cats is called a clowder",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed",
"A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds",
"A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft",
"Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.",
"A cat's hearing is better than a dog's",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face",
"A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans",
"A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans",
"A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae",
"Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear",
"Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins",
"A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth",
"The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea",
"Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day",
"In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.",
"Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste",
"Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat",
"In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats",
"Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth",
"Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour",
"According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.",
"Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark",
"Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds",
"If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death",
"Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®",
"Most cats don't have eyelashes",
"Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes",
"Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency",
"Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think",
"Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more",
"Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain",
"If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased",
"Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous",
"Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet",
"Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers",
"Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.",
"Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion",
"Cats have 24 more bones than humans",
"Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck",
"The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state",
"The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime",
"Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966",
"Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door",
"In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets",
"Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago",
"Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more",
"Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood",
"Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold",
"Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat",
"A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat",
"Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10",
"Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s",
"According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight",
"Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation",
"Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf",
"Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago",
"The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults",
"Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death",
"Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old",
"It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own",
"A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose",
"Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together",
"Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day",
"Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail",
"A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months",
"A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute",
"Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human",
"Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water",
"Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill",
"Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood",
"Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws",
"A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats",
"A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves",
"A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly",
"Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar",
"Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw",
"In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old",
"Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing",
"Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks",
"It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face",
"A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump",
"Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus",
"Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period",
"The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes",
"The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair",
"When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows",
"Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats",
"Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age",
"A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.",
"According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn",
"As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.",
"Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone",
"Most cat litters contain four to six kittens",
"A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck",
"One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats",
"Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.",
"A group of cats is called a “clowder.”",
"Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.",
"Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.",
"The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.",
"Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.",
"Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.",
"In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.",
"The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.",
"Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.",
"A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.",
"Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.",
"A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. ",
"In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.",
"Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.",
"Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.",
"Cats have supersonic hearing",
"On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.",
"It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.",
"According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.",
"While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.",
"Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.",
"The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).",
" A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.",
"A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.",
"The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.",
"Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.",
"Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.",
"Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.",
"Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"",
"Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.",
"A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.",
"Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.",
"At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.",
"During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.",
"Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.",
"Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.",
"While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.",
"The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.",
"A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.",
"The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.",
"It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.",
"A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.",
"A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.",
"Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.",
"Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).",
"About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.",
"Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.",
"Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.",
"There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.",
"The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.",
"The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.",
"A cat cannot see directly under its nose.",
"The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.",
"Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.",
"Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.",
"Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.",
"The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.",
"A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.",
"Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.",
"Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.",
"Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.",
"Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.",
"A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.",
"Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.",
"Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.",
"A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.",
"A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.",
"A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.",
"A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).",
"It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.",
"Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.",
"Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.",
"Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.",
"Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!",
"A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).",
"The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.",
"A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.",
"A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.",
"During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.",
"A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.",
"In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.",
"Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.",
"A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.",
"A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.",
"The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.",
"Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6",
"Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.",
"The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).",
"The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.",
"In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”",
"In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.",
"A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!",
"The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.",
"In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.",
"Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.",
"Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.",
"A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.",
"Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.",
"Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.",
"A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.",
"All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.",
"The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.",
"Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.",
"Cats dislike citrus scent.",
"There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.",
"When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.",
"In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.",
"The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.",
"In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",
"Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.",
"A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.",
"Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.",
"In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.",
"Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.",
"A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.",
"Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.",
"One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.",
"The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.",
"Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.",
"Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.",
"Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.",
"Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.",
"Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""",
"The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.",
"The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).",
"The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!",
"The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).",
"A female cat is called a queen or a molly.",
"A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""",
"The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).",
"On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.",
"Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.",
"Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.",
"Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.",
"When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.",
"In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i",
"A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.",
"The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.",
"The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.",
"Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.",
"Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.",
"Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.",
"Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.",
"Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.",
"Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.",
"Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.",
"A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.",
"A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.",
"There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.",
"Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.",
"The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.",
"The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.",
"Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.",
"Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.",
"Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.",
"The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.",
"Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one",
"Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.",
"The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.",
"In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.",
"The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”",
"Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.",
"An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.",
"Cats have 3 eyelids.",
"Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!",
"After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.",
"Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.",
"Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.",
"Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.",
"The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.",
"The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.",
"A group of cats is called a clowder.",
"Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.",
"The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.",
"Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.",
"A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.",
"70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.",
"Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.",
"A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.",
"Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.",
"A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.",
"The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.",
"In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.",
"A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.",
"There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.",
"There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.",
"The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.",
"A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.",
"A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.",
"A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.",
"A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.",
"Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.",
"Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.",
"The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.",
"Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.",
"A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.",
"Female felines are \superfecund",
"Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.",
"Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""",
"When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.",
"The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.",
"Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.",
"Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.",
"Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.",
"A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.",
"Most cats adore sardines.",
"The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!",
"It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.",
"The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.",
"Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.",
"The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”",
"Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.",
"Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.",
"A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.",
"Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.",
"The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.",
"The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).",
"A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.",
"The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).",
"The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.",
"Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.",
"A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints",
"Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.",
"Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.",
"Cat's urine glows under a black light.",
"The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.",
"Cats walk on their toes.",
"A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.",
"A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.",
"Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.",
"While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.",
"The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".",
"The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.",
"In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).",
"British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.",
"You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.",
"Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.",
"Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.",
"Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).",
"Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.",
"Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.",
"Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.",
"Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.",
"Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.",
"The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.",
"Female cats are polyestrous",
"When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as \hers\" with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head"",
"A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.",
"People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.",
"Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.",
"Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.",
"Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.",
"Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.",
"The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.",
"Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.",
"A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.",
"Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.",
"The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).",
"In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.",
"A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.",
"Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.",
"Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.",
"The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.",
"The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.",
"When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.",
"Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).",
"A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.",
"Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.",
"The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.",
"Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.",
"Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.",
"All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.",
"According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.",
"In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.",
"The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".",
"Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.",
"A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.",
"In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.",
"Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.",
"The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.",
"A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.",
"Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles",
"A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.",
"Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.",
"Milk can give some cats diarrhea.",
"A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.",
"Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.",
"Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.",
"Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.",
"Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.",
"A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.",
"In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.",
"Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more",
"Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.",
"Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body",
"All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.",
"In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.",
"Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another",
"Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.",
"A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.",
"The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.",
"A form of AIDS exists in cats.",
"The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.",
"Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.",
"In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.",
"If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.",
"Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.",
"If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.",
"When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.",
"Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.",
"The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.",
"Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million",
"The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.",